# Data Protection Terms

Because we are within the scope of the GDPR, we need to comply with it! Before we get into the specific things we have to do, let’s take some time to familiarize ourselves with the terms used in the GDPR.

The following terms key roles and concepts within the GDPR:

*   **Personal Data:** Personal data is anything that can be attributed to an identified or identifiable natural person. In other words, data related to someone who is (or can be) identified. Personal data includes things like first and last name, email address, and Social Security Number.
*   **Processing:** When we talk about the “processing” of data, or the “processing activities” an organization performs, what we mean is essentially _anything_ done to that data. According to Article 4 of the GDPR, this includes the “collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction” of data. So for our sake, consider all actions related to personal data as “processing activities.”
*   **Data Subject:** A data subject is the natural person who is identified or identifiable by personal data.
*   **Controller:** A controller is an organization who chooses what to do with personal data. They are the ones who decide whether data should be analyzed or collected or whatever. This includes deciding whether to store personal data with a vendor, like Salesforce or Google Drive.
*   **Processor:** Put simply, a processor is a vendor. Processors will receive personal data, but they can only do with it what a controller tells them to. If I decide to use Google Drive to store the personal data I collect about my customers, Google cannot decide to sell that data willy-nilly (unless, of course, that’s permitted in my contract with Google). (Note: processors can _also_ be controllers for the data they collect on their own--for example, Google is a controller for the data it collects on its EU-based employees!)
*   **Lawful Basis:** We’ll get to this soon, but an organization subject to the GDPR must have a "lawful basis" for anything it does with personal data. There are six lawful bases that permit the processing of personal data, including legitimate interests (the processing is necessary for our legitimate reasons) and consent (the data subjects agreed to the processing).
*   **Data Protection Officer:** A Data Protection Officer (or “DPO”) is the individual at an organization responsible for training and ensuring compliance with the GDPR. It’s not always required to have a DPO, though it is a good practice to assign someone compliance responsibilities!
*   **Data Protection Authority:** Each member state (country) of the EU has its own Data Protection Authority, which is the office responsible supervising the implementation--and enforcement--of the GDPR in that country.
