# Data Subject Rights

One of the major features of the GDPR is that it provides data subjects with a number of rights as to their data. You’ve probably heard of the most famous of these rights: the “right to be forgotten” (or more formally, the right to erasure). This slide briefly summarizes the rights data subjects have. The next slide describes what to do when a data subject exercises one of these rights.

*   **Right to be informed:** Data subjects have the right to be informed about what’s happening with their data. (Recall the transparency principle from earlier!) This information should be given to data subjects when we collect their data (not later), and usually comes in the form of a privacy policy on organization websites.
*   **Right of access:** Data subjects have the right to access their data. In other words, they have the right to get copies of the data we have related to them. This includes access to derivative data we have about data subjects (including things like user profiles we might have made).
*   **Right to rectification:** Data subjects have the right to correct information that is inaccurate or to provide more information if what we have is incomplete.
*   **Right to erasure:** Data subjects have the right to have their personal data deleted. But note that this right only applies in some cases! For example, if the legal basis for our processing is consent and the data subject withdraws her consent, we need to delete her data. But if we need to keep data in order to comply with a legal obligation, we don’t need to delete it. To learn more, reach out to your organization's Privacy Officer.
*   **Right to restrict processing:** Data subjects have the right to limit how we process their data (in some cases). We won’t get into the gritty details of this right, but suffice to say, this right is limited and doesn’t require us to completely delete the data.
*   **Right to data portability:** Data subjects have the right to move, copy, or transfer their personal data. This means we need to give them the data we collected from them. This is narrower than the right of access, and doesn’t require the export of derivative data that was not collected directly from the data subject.
*   **Right to object:** Data subjects have the right to object to the processing of their data in specific circumstances. This includes (among other cases) when the data is for direct marketing purposes.
*   **Rights related to automated decision making:** Finally, data subjects have certain rights that exist when their data are being used to make decisions solely by automated means. (For example, if the decision of whether to issue a credit card to a person is based on an automated process related to the data a person submits, that processing would provide the data subject with additional rights.) If your organization uses automated decision making, your Privacy Officer will provide you with more information about these rights.

When a data subject exercises one of these rights, we have to act. How we respond is summarized on the next slide!
